Docker gives you the capability to create your own Docker images, and it can be done with the help of Docker Files. A Docker File is a simple text file with instructions on how to build your images.

Steps to create a docker file

Step 1 : Create a file called Docker File (Dockerfile)

Step 2 : enter below text into Dockerfile

        #This is a sample Image 
        FROM ubuntu 
        MAINTAINER user@gmail.com 

        RUN apt-get update 
        RUN apt-get install –y nginx 
        CMD [“echo”,”Image created”] 

  Lines:
        The first line "#This is a sample Image" is a comment. You can add comments to the Docker File with the help of the # command

        The next line has to start with the FROM keyword. It tells docker, from which base image you want to base your image from. In our example, we are creating an image from the ubuntu image.

        The next command is the person who is going to maintain this image. Here you specify the MAINTAINER keyword and just mention the email ID.

        The RUN command is used to run instructions against the image. In our case, we first update our Ubuntu system and then install the nginx server on our ubuntu image.

        The last command is used to display a message to the user.

Step 3 : Save the file

Step 4 : Build Image 
    
      Build Syntax :
                  docker build  -t ImageName:TagName dir
           Options :
                  -t − is to mention a tag to the image

                  ImageName − This is the name you want to give to your image.

                  TagName − This is the tag you want to give to your image.

                  Dir − The directory where the Docker File is present.
           
           ex :
              docker build –t myimage:0.1. 

Step 5 : Check new Image in system
      docker images

Step 6 : Build container from created Image
        docker run -d -p 80:80 imagename
        
        ex :
                docker run –d –p 80:80 mywebserver 
      
           



